Dedicated tutorial / superseedes #128 (#129)
JuliaDynamics/Attractors.jl: docs/src/tutorial.md

[`Attractors`](@ref) is a submodule of the **DynamicalSystems.jl** library.
This tutorial will walk you through its main functionality.
That is, given a `DynamicalSystem` instance, find all its attractors and their basins
of attraction. Then,
continue these attractors, and their stability properties, across a parameter value.
It also offers various functions that compute nonlocal stability properties for an
attractor, any of which can be used in the continuation to quantify stability.

Besides this main functionality, there are plenty of other stuff,
like for example [`edgestate`](@ref) or [`basins_fractal_dimension`](@ref),
but we won't cover anything else in this introductory tutorial.
See the [examples](@ref examples) page instead.

## Input: a `DynamicalSystem`

The key input for most functionality of Attractors.jl is an instance of
a `DynamicalSystem`. If you don't know how to make
a `DynamicalSystem`, you need to consult the main tutorial of the
[DynamicalSystems.jl library](https://juliadynamics.github.io/DynamicalSystemsDocs.jl/dynamicalsystems/stable/tutorial/).
For this tutorial we will use a modified Lorenz-like system with equations

> ```math

Reviewer: This equation does not display in my browser, I get: 

\[\dot{x} & = y - x \\ \dot{y} & = -x*z + b*|z| \\ \dot{x} & = x*y - a \\\]

)
````

## Finding attractors

There are two major methods for finding attractors in dynamical systems.
Explanation of how they work is in their respective docs.

1. [`AttractorsViaRecurrences`](@ref).
2. [`AttractorsViaFeaturizing`](@ref).

You can consult [Datseris2023](@cite) for a comparison between the two.

As far as the user is concerned, both algorithms are part of the same interface,
and can be used in the same way. The interface is extendable as well,
and works as follows.

First, we create an instance of such an "attractor finding algorithm",
which we call `AttractorMapper`. For example, [`AttractorsViaRecurrences`](@ref)
requires a tesselated grid of the state space to search for attractors in.
It also allows the user to tune some meta parameters, but in our example
they are already tuned for the dynamical system at hand. So we initialize

````@example tutorial
grid = (
    range(-10.0, 10.0; length = 100), # x
    range(-15.0, 15.0; length = 100), # y
    range(-15.0, 15.0; length = 100), # z
)

mapper = AttractorsViaRecurrences(ds, grid;
    consecutive_recurrences = 1000, attractor_locate_steps = 1000,
    consecutive_lost_steps = 100,
)
````

> Then, this `mapper` can be given to several functions for finding attractors

Reviewer: Here, I would start with a simple use of the mapper and explain that this is a function from the state space to a label: 

`mapper(u0) -> identifier`

And each newly found attractor gets a new label.

and their basins of attraction. The simplest one
is [`basins_fractions`](@ref). Using the `mapper`,
it finds "all" attractors of the dynamical system and reports the state space fraction
each attractors attracts. The search is probabilistic, so "all" attractors means those
that at least one initial condition converged to.

We can provide explicitly initial conditions to [`basins_fraction`](@ref),
however it is typically simpler to provide it with with a state space sampler instead:
a function that generates random initial conditions in the region of the
state space that we are interested in. Here this region coincides with `grid`,
so we can simply do:

````@example tutorial
sampler, = statespace_sampler(grid)

sampler() # random i.c.
````

````@example tutorial
sampler() # another random i.c.
````

and finally call

````@example tutorial
fs = basins_fractions(mapper, sampler)
````

> The returned `fs` is a dictionary mapping attractor IDs to
> the state space fraction their basin of attraction occupies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The returned `fs` is a dictionary mapping each attractor ID to
the fraction of occupation of its basin in the state space.
```

To perform the continuation is extremely simple. First, we decide what parameter,
and what range, to continue over:

````@example tutorial
prange = 4.5:0.02:6
pidx = 1 # index of the parameter
````

Then, we may call the [`continuation`](@ref) function.
We have to provide a continuation algorithm, which itself references an [`AttractorMapper`](@ref).
In this example we will re-use the `mapper` to create a [`RecurrencesFindAndMatch`](@ref) continuation algorithm.
This algorithm uses the `mapper` to find all attractors at each parameter value.
Then, it performs a "matching" step, ensuring a "continuity" of the attractor
label across the parameter axis. You can read the docstring for more details,
as this algorithm is quite sophisticated!

For now we can use all of its default options which are reliable 99% of the time

````@example tutorial
rafm = RecurrencesFindAndMatch(mapper)
````

and call

````@example tutorial
fractions_curves, attractors_info = continuation(
	rafm, prange, pidx, sampler; samples_per_parameter = 1_000
)

attractors_info
````

the output is given as two vectors. Each vector is a dictionary

> mapping attractor IDs to ther fractions, or their state space sets, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mapping attractor IDs to their fractions, or their state space sets, respectively.
```

Both vectors have the same size as the parameter range.
For example, the attractors at the 34-th parameter value are:

````@example tutorial

> attractors_info[34]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attractors_info[34], prange[34]
```

````

There is a fantastic convenience function for animating
the attractors evolution, that utilizes things we have
already defined:

````@example tutorial
animate_attractors_continuation(
    ds, attractors_info, fractions_curves, prange, pidx;
);
nothing #hide
````

```@raw html
<video width="auto" controls autoplay loop>
<source src="../attracont.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
```

Hah, how cool is that! The attractors pop in and out of existence like out of nowhere!
It would be incredibly difficult to find these attractors in traditional continuation software
where a rough estimate of the period is required! (It would also be too hard due to the presence
of chaos for most of the parameter values, but that's another issue!)

Now typically a continuation is visualized in a 2D plot where the x axis is the
parameter axis. We can do this with the convenience function:

````@example tutorial
fig = plot_basins_attractors_curves(
	fractions_curves, attractors_info, A -> minimum(A[:, 1]), prange,
)
````

In the top panel are the basin fractions, by default plotted as stacked bars.
Bottom panel is a visualization of the tracked attractors.

> The argument `A -> minimum(A[:, 1])` is simply a function tha maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument `A -> minimum(A[:, 1])` is simply a function that maps
```

an attractor into a real number for plotting.

> We can provide more functions to visualize more aspects of the attractors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can provide more functions to visualize other aspects of the attractors:
```
